# Background

I am a first-generation American. I was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia
(now the Czech Republic). When I was eight years old, my mother
escaped with me and my brother and her second husband from that
Eastern block country.

We came to the US in 1980, the day Ronald Reagan was elected. My first
English words were learned on the plane over. Those words were “I am
hungry.” Those words are still appropriate to me not only because I
really do enjoy a good meal, be it simple or gourmet, but that I
realize that I have been and still am hungry for accomplishment.

I believe the main influence in striving for accomplishment is the
influence of my mother. Just think, a woman around thirty years old
dragging along two kids 8 and 10, comes to a new country not knowing
the language so her kids can have a better life. First she takes a job
refinishing furniture. With much effort and gumption, she applies her
art training and talent to not just get a job but also to get
freelance work. She goes on to create identities for companies from
the US government to Hostess. You can see some of her work here -
[http://www.dagmarpersons.com/](http://www.dagmarpersons.com/). This
is my favorite and I still remember in grade school staying up late
with her as she was working on this -
[http://www.dagmarpersons.com/artGallery/logo_USTreasury.html](http://www.dagmarpersons.com/artGallery/logo_USTreasury.html).
Little did I know the full impact of this specific message.

In August 1986, less than six years later after arriving in the US, my
mother worked and saved enough to buy a house in a good school
district so my brother and I could have a good high school experience
and be properly prepared for college. To start with nothing and having
two kids to raise to boot, and still in a short time buying a house,
what a great accomplishment! I am proud of her.
